---

[Home](/) | [CVW-8](/cvw8/cvw8.html)

---

# CVW-8 Tutorials

## SEAD

SEAD and DEAD missions are crucial to many operations, and there is never a
single way to do things that works for all scenarios. This guide will present
two primary strategies that are useful in different situations.

### Using Standoff Weapons

Using standoff weapons is a preferred strategy when dealing with high threat
areas where getting close is not an option. It presents a way to engage
targets from outside their primary threat range and has a higher chance to keep
the pilot out of harms way. The primary downside is that many SAM sites are very
effective at shooting down standoff weapons, and unless the site is flooded by
launching many JSOWs/HARMs at the same time, few or no weapons may ever reach
their targets.

A key to any high threat mission like SEAD or DEAD is utilizing the defensive
systems available on the aircraft. In particular utilizing chaff can help break
radar lock, and ECM jamming can prevent being locked all together. The following
video goes over the basics of ECM and countermeasure programs.

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://youtu.be/o6TaSLxVGoM"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

The AGM-88C HARM in self protect (SP) mode allows a pilot to have other weapons
selected, but upon being locked from a radar ground threat, receive a cue to
automatically deploy the HARM towards the highest threat. Launching HARMs will
often force SAM sites to turn off their radars in order to avoid being
destroyed, and thus they prove to be a useful defensive tool. However, due to
the ability for a SAM site to turn off its radar and thus make the HARM useless,
HARMs are not the best tool if destroying the SAM site is a priority. Please
see the following video for a guide on how to use HARMs with SP mode and utilize
the SP OVERRIDE mode.

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://youtu.be/amyGzVnr2oU?t=598"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

Joint Standoff Weapons (JSOWs) are long range glide bombs with GPS guidance on
board. The AGM-154A is a glide bomb containing cluster munitions while the C
variant contains a large explosive and is capable of armor penetration. These
weapons are good options for DEAD missions due to their large range and reduced
radar cross section that makes it harder for SAM sites to destroy the bomb
before it reaches its destination. In conjunction with a targeting pod such as
the ATFLIR, JSOWs are able to be deployed on any target a pilot can visually
spot through the TPOD by using target of opportunity (TOO) mode. Please see
the following videos for guidance with JSOWs and the ATFLIR tpod.

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://youtu.be/kGQYBpXqfMU"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  src="https://youtu.be/YAhISGnrjtk"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

### Wild Weasel

Wild weasel is a high risk and high reward strategy that gets pilots up close
and personal with SAM sites. Utilizing terrain masking, pilots get as close as
possible, avoiding radar contact and launches until they are within the minimum
range of launch of the SAM site where they can safely pop up and engage the
site. The major downside is the high risk nature of this type of attack. Getting
even 10 ft too high can expose you to the radar and mean getting launched on;
depending on the particular threat, this could be deadly. Many SAM sites also
have close range defenses that make minimum engagement range effectively zero
which makes this strategy especially high risk.

The wild weasel strategy itself can employ a variety of different weapons such
as HARMs, mavericks, retarded bombs, or even guns. The primary tactic employed
is flying low and using terrain to mask your radar signature. Once close enough,
pilots briefly pop up to deploy weapons. The following videos cover wild weasel
strategy for different types of SAM threats.
